Your gaming PC is way slower than it
should be. And it's not your hardware,
it's your settings. Today, I'm going to
show you the ultimate 2025 optimization
guide that'll boost your FPS, lower
input lag, and make your PC run at peak
performance. Before Windows even loads,
your BIOS settings, determine how fast
your CPU and RAM perform. So, let's fix
that. First thing that you want to do is
go to the link in the description and
download the 2025 Ultimate PC
Optimization Guide folder, which is
going to have everything that we need
for the rest of this video. Now, the
second thing that you need to have is a
USB stick and plug it into your
computer. However, if you don't have a
USB stick, I would recommend getting one
as this guide solely depends on you
having a USB stick or not, just due to
the fact that this makes the process way
more automated and way faster if you
just end up having a USB stick. For the
purposes of this video, try to find one,
try to borrow one for the purposes of
this video. So, first thing that we want
to do is we want to check if we have
BIOS updates that are needed on our
computer. Some of the BIOS updates that
I'd recommend doing is if you're on AM5
or if you're on AM4 and you got a new
CPU or if you're on Intel. Regardless of
what you've got, you need to make sure
that your BIOS is somewhat up to date or
it's at a BIOS update that you know is
stable. For realistically 90% of you
that are on older hardware, this step
just skip completely. However, for
people on newer PCs, then I'd recommend
double checking this. So, all you want
to do is go to the first folder, double
click check motherboard model, and what
you're going to do is you're just going
to copy this motherboard model. You can
just copy it. If I click on it, click
control C on your keyboard and then just
paste it into your Google. And this is
going to pop up with the first link down
here. You just want to pretty much go to
drivers and tools BIOS and firmware for
example and just download the latest
version. Now, once you've done that, all
you want to do is drag this file onto
your USB stick. We're going to go back
to BIOS settings and actually go through
all that. What you're going to do then
is go to the second option right here
and you're going to double click restart
to BIOS. However, if this BIO does not
work, it's not going to BIOS. just
restart your PC manually and spam delete
while it's turning back on. All right,
so once you're in the BIOS, we'll go to
the tool tab or go to M Flash or just go
to some place where it says flash or
update somewhere along those lines. And
then for example on ASUS, it's going to
be ASUS Easy Flash 3 utility. Then you
would scroll down and then choose your
USB stick from down here and then choose
the BIOS file which is going to be right
here. Then you would just press yes and
keep pressing yes until it starts
updating it. Then just give it around 10
minutes for it to actually finish
updating completely. then you would just
go back into the BIOS settings and
continue with the BIOS optimization. I
recommend everyone loading optimized
defaults on their motherboard. However,
if you just updated your BIOS, like I
said earlier, then you don't need to do
this. It's already going to be on the
default. But for everyone who just
didn't need a BIOS update like me, you
can just completely click load optimize
defaults and then press okay. Now, the
first thing that we want to do, we want
to head over to Extreme Tweaker. And it
might be different for your motherboard.
For AI overclock tuner, you want to
obviously set this to XMPP1. I don't
really recommend XMPP2 or XMPP tweaked
cuz these are a bit different. Just to
make it easier, just use XMPP1. Hence
adaptive boost technology. This really
doesn't do anything for our situation.
So, just disable this. As soon as
multi-core enhancement, you want to set
this to enable to remove all limits
because this pretty much just set the
power limits to the maximum. So, if your
CPU needs to work a little bit harder in
a game, it can and it won't cap the
speed at a certain frequency. And memory
controller only DRAM frequency ratio. If
you're going to be using DDR4, make sure
this is set to 1 one. If you're on DDR5,
you just leave it auto. It's going to be
much more of a profit. Then once you've
done that, just make sure you set your
DM frequency to your XMPP, which is
going to be for me 7200. Then we're
going to go to thermal velocity boost
and disable all of these right here
because these are unneeded and you
pretty much don't need them at all. Then
go back, go to tweaker paradise. Also
disable any spread spectrum settings in
here. However, you could test out with
these sometimes if you have a lot of
devices in your room. Enabling these
actually help more than disabling them.
So I'd recommend testing this out. Then
go back, make sure ring down bin is
disabled and disable BCLK or adaptive
voltage. Now, there's a lot more stuff
that you can do in this page like
overclocking your CPU and overclocking
your memory. However, these are two
complex subjects. I do have a video on
how to overclock your CPU. So, if you
want to do that right after this video,
you're more than welcome to. Then go to
advanced tab at the top, go to platform
misconfiguration, and just disable
everything in here. These are all just
PCI Express power saving options. So,
ASPM or any of these other clock gaining
settings, just make sure they're on
disabled. Then go back, go to CPU
configuration, and scroll down to the
bottom. So, what I would recommend is
disabling Intel virtualization
technology and also disabling
hyperthreading. If you're going to be
using Windows 10 after this video, I'd
recommend completely disabling active
efficient cores and setting them to
zero, especially if you're on 12th gen
Intel. However, if you're on 13th gen
Intel or 14th gen Intel and you're going
to be using Windows 11 and playing a
variety of games, I recommend setting
this to all. Then go to CPU power
management control. Scroll down to the
bottom and disable thermal monitor.
Disable CPUC states and disable Intel
speed shift technology. Intel speed step
if you're on ASRock motherboards. Leave
this enabled. Do performance mode. Set
the turbo performance. Press escape
twice. Go to system agent configuration.
VTD is the same thing as virtualization.
Just disable it if you don't need it
enabled. Then go back and then go to
trusted computing. Make sure this is
enabled because some games won't work
without enabling this like Valerant and
Ford. Go to PCI subsystem settings. I
recommend testing off and on with above
4G decoding. However, on my personal PC,
I found out that above 4G decoding set
to off is way better than having it
enabled with resize bar support. So,
you're more than welcome to test. Then,
go back, go to USB configuration, and
just make sure XHCI handoff is disabled.
And you can just disable legacy USB
support. However, sometimes your USB
stick won't show up. So, if you need
your USB stick to show up, leave this on
enabled. Go back and go to onboard
devices configuration. And you want to
disable anything in here that you don't
need. So, for example, USB audio, I
don't need that. USB power delivery and
soft off state. I don't need that. And
Bluetooth, I don't need that. I want to
disable all the RGB on my motherboard.
And scroll down. I could just disable
these extra USB controllers because I'm
not using them. Then that's pretty much
going to be the it for the advanced tab.
As you guys saw, those are pretty much
the majority of the BIOS settings right
there. Now, we're going to go to tool at
the very top and go to ASUS Armory Crate
and just disable this because this is
bloware and you want to disable, for
example, MSI driver utility installer,
Gigabyte utilities downloader, and
asrock driver utility. any of those just
disable them because they are bloatware
and they do install a lot of bloat.
That's going to be pretty much it for
these BIOS settings. What you can do now
is just go to Susser profile and just
save this as a profile like how I have
it saved here. So you just type whatever
you want for this and then just save it.
For example, on profile 6 and that's all
you have to do. All you have to do then
is just go to save changes and exit and
press okay. So whenever you're in BIOS,
all you're going to do is you're going
to press F7 if you're on MSI to go to
advanced mode or just click advanced
mode in your BIOS. You're going to go to
overclocking settings and OC explore
mode. If you have this setting, set it
to expert and go to advanced CPU
configuration. Now, disable SVM mode and
disable NX mode if you don't use these.
Games like Valerant and some other games
actually force you to enable this in
order to even launch the game. So, if
you play Valerant or if you play Face
It, then you might have to keep these
enabled. PSS support disabled and spread
spectrum disabled as well. Then go to
AMD overclocking at the top. Precision
boost overdrive for the purposes of this
video and to give everyone the least
possible problems. Set this to enabled.
And SMT control. If you have overheating
problems on a Ryzen 9 or a Ryzen 7, you
could disable this. However, on a Ryzen
5, do not disable this. L2 mode 2. This
is just some stuff for extreme
overclocking. It's very unnecessary for
what we do. LCLK DPM. If you have this
setting, set it to disabled. Then go
back. go to AMD, CBS, global sestate
control, disable this. However, if you
have really bad temperatures, leave this
on auto. And the easiest way to figure
out if you have really bad temperatures
is just you want to look at CPU core
temperature while you're gaming. If it's
above 75° while gaming, then just leave
this on auto. Power supply idle control,
typical current idle, and disable IO
MMU. L2 mode one, same thing. L2 mode 2,
disable those. CPPC and CPPC preferred
cores, disable both of these. Then
you're going to go back, go back again
and scroll down. AXMP, of course, set
this to profile one or enabled. And then
FK frequency for AM4, aka people on
DDR4, you're going to set this to the
half of whatever your frequency for the
RAM is. So for me, it's 3,000. So I'm
going to set it
to,500. Now, if you're on DDR5, you're
just going to set FLK frequency to
2,000. Then ULK D1 mode, you're going to
set this to ULK equals MELK. And then
scroll down, go to advanced D random
configuration. And what I like doing for
DDR4 is I set
TRD_S to 4 and TRD_L to 8 and T file to
32. Now, if you're on DDR5, set them
both to 8. If you're on 32 GB of RAM, if
you're on 48 GB of RAM, TRDL should be
on 12. Then TAW for both DDR4 and DDR5,
if you're following this guide, you can
set it to 32. Now, if you're on DDR4,
you can set it to 16. However, you might
start getting some crashing and some
memory errors. So, if you just want to
be safe, set to 32. Scroll down and
power down enable. If you're on AM5, so
DDR5, do not disable this. If you're on
AM4, aka DDR4, disable this. TSME, you
could disable this on both AM5 and AM4.
And bankrupt swap, this is only for
DDR4, disable this. And bankrupt swap
all set to enable. and DM latency
enhance again just for DD DDR4 set this
to enabled. Now on DDR5 you might have
data scramble in here. Just disable that
if you have that option. Then go back
and then just go to motherboard settings
on the left. Go to advanced. Disable MSI
driver utility installer and then go to
PCI subsystem settings. Disable resize
bar support. Disable above 4G memory and
PCIe gen switch set to gen 3 or gen 4.
And then chipset gen switch also max
that out. Then just make sure ASPM
control is disabled. Go back, go to USB
configuration and enable XHCI handoff.
Then go back, go to super IO
configuration, go in here and just
disable this. This is just a printer
port. So if you want to hook up a
printer to your PC with some special
cable, then you could just leave this
enabled. However, literally almost 99%
of you watching do not use this. So, go
back, go to integrated peripherals, and
if you don't use the audio jacks on your
PC or if you don't use Wi-Fi or
Bluetooth, you can disable it here. So,
for me, I'm going to leave all this
enabled because I do use it. Then, go
back, go to Windows OS configuration,
and make sure to set this to UEFI if
you're going to be using Windows 11 and
set secure boot to enabled if you're
going to use Windows 11 and play
Valerant or face it. However, if you
don't use Windows 11 and you don't play
Valerant or Face It, just completely
ignore what I just said. Then go back
and then go back again. Go to security,
go to trusted computing. If you don't
use Windows 11 and if you don't play
Valerant or face it, you can just set
this to disabled and then go back. Go
back again and go to hardware monitor on
the right. Now, AMD is very, very
sensitive to temperatures. The the lower
the temperatures are, the higher the
frequency is on AMD. So, if you want the
best results from this video, you want
to set your fans to full speed by
pressing F on MSI. Now, depending on
your motherboard, obviously might be
something else, but you just want to set
the fans to full speed because the lower
the temperatures are, the CPU is going
to boost higher, thus giving you more
performance, more FPS, etc. And that's
why temperatures are very important on
AMD. And in general, you want to make
sure that you're not hitting some crazy
number like 75 or 80° while you're
playing games cuz if you do, the CPU has
to lower the CPU frequency down and
you're going to get stutters, FPS drops,
and more. So, make sure to max this out.
Then go back. Now, ideally, you want to
save this as a profile. So, what you
could do is you just go to overclock
your profile that's blank and just set
this to like Zilly video, for example,
and then just save overclocker profile.
That's all you have to do to save this
for the settings. Now, let's just say,
for example, there's a power outage or
your CMOS battery gets reset for
whatever reason. You can just click load
overclock and profile and then it'll
load these exact same settings that you
did watching this video. So, that's
pretty much the majority of everything
that you have to do in this BIOS. Now,
depending on if you're on AM5 or AM4,
you might have to worry about RAM speeds
being a little bit too high depending on
what RAM you bought. So, for the
purposes of this video, you want to make
sure that you're around 3,800 MHz for
DDR4. And if you're on DDR5, just set it
to 6,000. Do not set it at anything
above that. Now, that's pretty much it.
There's not much else you could do for
AMD. There is memory overclocking and a
little bit of CPU overclocking, but for
the purposes of this video and for the
purposes of making this as safe as
possible and making it so everyone just
applies this and gets a huge performance
boost, I'm not going to cover that stuff
in this video. But now what you going to
do, just press F10. As you guys can see,
these are all the settings that we
changed. We're just going to press yes
on that. All right. So once your BIOS is
completely optimized and you're back in
the Windows, now we're going to pretty
much prepare the USB stick. So, make
sure that you have your USB stick
plugged in. And this is the moment of
the guide where you need to save
anything that you need saving to a
different drive like a D drive or just
completely save it on a Google cloud
drive. And the reason for that is just
because we are about to wipe your SSD
entirely and just put a fresh slate of
Windows where it has no bugs, no
corruption, and zero issues on it. And
you can start off with a fresh new slate
for 2025. Once you've done that, just
plug in your USB stick, go to the third
folder, and double click os.click. It's
going to take you to this website right
here where we're going to download a
fresh Windows 11 or 10 installation. So
now I'll just click get my ISO. Now
there are multiple Windows versions you
can download and any of them will be
fine for this guide. However, here are
my recommendations. If you have a Core
ultra system from Intel that you
recently purchased, you need to download
Windows 11 24H2 or everyone else on a
modern system. Just install Windows
1123H2. However, if you have a very old
system like a Core i7 seventy700 K or a
Ryzen 7 1800X, then I recommend using
Windows 10 since it will be more stable
for older systems. And since I have an
i9 1300 KS, I'll be installing Windows
11 23H2 for this video. So, just go
through all this, click multi-dition,
and just choose English United States
64-bit, and just click this big purple
button right here to start downloading
the file. Now, once you have the file
downloaded and your USB stick is plugged
in, all you want to do is double click
rough 4.6.exe, it's going to show up
with your USB stick on the top right
here. And now, all you have to do is
just click select and then choose ISO
file that you downloaded from the
website. So, it's going to be right
here. Double click on that. I'm going to
click start. I'm going to click okay.
And I'm going to click okay again. Then,
all you have to do now is just give it
around 10 to 15 minutes for this process
to completely finish. All right. So, as
you can see, the USB is finally done. It
did take around 34 minutes for me. It's
going to take less longer for you. It
just happens to be that the USB I put in
the PC is super slow. Then you're going
to go back to the guide pack that we
just downloaded and go to prepare the
USB stick. You're going to just
highlight pretty much everything in this
folder, which is called Dragon Side USB
stick after setting it up. Click copy.
Go to the USB stick and it's just paste
it in here. Now, depending on your PC,
you might have to get more Ethernet
drivers or wireless drivers depending on
your motherboard. So, what I would do is
I would go back to check for BIOS
updates if needed. Go to check
motherboard model, copy this, then go to
the motherboard website and then the
support page and then download any LAN
or wireless drivers that you need right
before you install the Windows and make
sure you put it on the USB stick in case
you don't have Ethernet or you don't
have Wi-Fi. All right, so once that's
done, your USB stick should look
something like this. And once you have
that done, all we want to do is we want
to go back and click optimize BIOS
settings and then just double click
restart to BIOS. So, whenever you're in
the BIOS settings, all we're going to do
is we're going to go to the boot tab or
just somewhere along those lines and
we're going to change the boot option
number one to the USB stick. You might
have two partitions like I do right
here. Just click the first one and
that's all you have to do. Just save
changes and reset right. All right,
guys. So, as you can see, the USB stick
is finally loading up and we can access
the Windows setup right here. So, right
here, all you want to do is you want to
make sure that you pick Windows 11 Pro
if you have that option. And then just
all you have to do is just press next.
After that, then it's going to pop up
with this page right here. you want to
find your SSD is you're going to delete
every single partition on your SSD. So
for me, for example, I'm going to look
through this and figure out which one
the one I want to install it to, which
is going to be this one. So I'm going to
delete that. Then once you've done that,
you just click the allocated space for
the SSD and press next. However, I did
leave some of these partitions alone
because I don't want to wipe my SSD
completely because I have multiple
windows on it. But for you, you're going
to pretty much delete every single drive
2 partition or drive one, whichever one
is your SSD specifically. You want to
make sure that you figure out which one
that is. You don't want to install your
Windows on the hard drive because it
will load up very very slow and it's
going to be just a nightmare using your
Windows on a hard drive. So, make sure
that you double check and figure out
which one's your SSD. You could just go
back in the BIOS and figure out which
one it is or just unplug your hard drive
completely from the PC and click refresh
and it'll just pop up with only the SSD.
Then you can just wipe that completely
by deleting every single partition. Then
clicking the allocated space with the
most space and pressing next on the
bottom right. It's going to start
installing Windows how you regularly
install Windows. All right, as you guys
can see now, it's going to pretty much
finish up the installation. I'm just
going to restart and completely set up
the PC like a new PC. All right. So,
you're going to get this complete
flashbang of the Windows 11 logo and
it's going to ask you who's going to use
this device. Just type whatever you
want. This is the login to your
computer. So, for me, I'm just going to
type X. Now, if you want a password,
just type one in. It's going to ask you
a couple security questions after that.
If you don't want one, just leave it
blank and press next. So, that's what
I'm going to do. All right. So, as you
can see, we are finally on the desktop.
So now, if you don't have any Wi-Fi
drivers, like I don't have any Wi-Fi
drivers right now, all you're going to
do is go to the USB stick and then go to
Ethernet and wireless drivers. If no
internet, go to Intel Wi-Fi and then
just double click install.bet. I'm going
to give this a second. It's going to
give me Wi-Fi drivers and I'll be able
to connect to my Wi-Fi. All right, so as
you can see, we are now connected to
Wi-Fi. So all we're going to do now is
go to the link in description to
download the pack file again and place
it onto your desktop. So all you're
going to do now is go to the fourth
folder and then we're going to click on
install required runtimes. So these are
just some runtimes that are needed for
basic program to work which you want to
install. Then right click click run as
an administrator. It's going to install
all C++ runtime that are needed. Then go
back and while that's downloading just
double click edge web view. And this is
needed for a lot of programs nowadays.
So just make sure to install that and
then install DirectX. Accept the
agreement. Press next. Uncheck install
the Bing Bar. Make sure you uncheck
that. Press next and press next again.
And just let that download and do its
thing. All right guys. So once that's
done and over with, click finish. Then
go back. go to the second folder in the
optimization pack, which is install GPU
drivers. And if you're on AMD, go to the
first folder. If you're on Nvidia, go to
the second folder. So for me, I'm on
Nvidia. So I'm going to click double
click unv and clean install. And this is
going to pretty much download deep
loaded drivers and completely optimize
them a little bit. Press next on that.
Keep spamming that. Just let that
download. Now, if you're on AMD, all
you're going to do is go to the AMD
folder and double click download Radeon
drivers. And then you just pretty much
choose whatever Radeon graphics card you
have. So, go to graphics, Radeon RX, and
then let's just say we have the 6000
series and we have a 6800 XT. Press
submit. Then go to Windows 11. Just
download the latest one, which is going
to be this one, and click download. Then
click. All right. So, once you have the
AMD driver downloaded, and then you're
going to go back to this file right here
and go to Radeon Software Slimmer. Then
you're going to scroll down and double
click Radeon Software Slimmer.exe. And
then you're going to click pre-install
at the top, click browse, go to
downloads, and double click this file
right here for your AMD drivers. Press
next and then press next again. It's
going to extract the files. And what
this tool is going to do, it's going to
remove any of the unnecessary drivers
within your AMD software to make sure
it's debloed and gives you better
performance just from doing this. I'll
click select none. I would check AMD
display driver, AMD settings. And
realistically, if that's all you need,
you don't need any audio drivers from
your monitor or any of that. You can
just pretty much leave this alone.
However, if you do need audio from your
monitor, make sure that anything that
has the word audio in its name, make
sure to leave it checked. Then go to
schedule task. You can pretty much just
press select none on this. and display
driver components. Do the same thing.
Press select none. Then you would click
modify installer at the bottom right
here. Then you would pretty much just
click run installer and go to the AMD
installer just like how you would
regularly do it. And then it would
install a debloed AMD driver without any
of the unnecessary BS that comes with
AMD drivers. Now for Nvidia, once your
NV clean install is done down in the
drivers, you want to check the first
three options. We want to check disable
Ansel, show expert tweaks. Check the
first one, disable driver telemetry,
check disable HTTP, then check these
last two bottom ones right here. Press
next, press install, and just let that
install your Nvidia drivers. All right,
so once the drivers are installed, you
can just pretty much close out of this
window, go back to the 2025 Ultimate PC
Optimization Guide, go to the fourth
folder, and then you're going to go to
update any other drivers. And this is
pretty much just a snappy driver
installer. This tool just goes through
your whole entire PC and scans for any
drivers that you need. So, for example,
as you guys can see, I need Ethernet
drivers. I could update those, and I
could update my Wi-Fi drivers down here.
So, you just pick those, press install
on top left right here, and it will just
install these drivers if you need them.
However, if you don't really need to
update anything in here in terms of
Ethernet, Wi-Fi, or Bluetooth drivers,
you can just pretty much exit out and
skip this step. Then go back, go to GPU
driver, settings, and tweaks. MSI
Utility V3, you want to double click
that. And you want to make sure that you
check everything in here that you can
that has supported modes MSI. However,
if it only has supported modes line
based and no MSI, don't check it. Just
leave it unchecked. But everything that
has MSI, check it. And then set
everything to undefined just like so.
Press apply and refresh and make sure
it's set to that. Then go to Nvidia.
You're going to double click Nvidia
profile inspector. And all you have to
do is just drag this optimize.nip inside
of there. Press apply like so. Then open
up Nvidia control panel. Press agree and
continue. Go to adjust image settings
preview. Select this middle button right
here. Use the advanced 3D image
settings. This makes sure that you're
using the actual Nvidia profile that we
just loaded up. Don't check this third
one. Just leave it on quality. This
doesn't mean that it's actually using
quality settings. It's just using the
custom profile that we already loaded
up. So, just press apply and go to
manage 3D settings. As you can see, all
this is going to be already optimized
for you. You don't have to do anything
else. Go to configure surround. Just
make sure this is set to your graphics
card and then go to adjust desktop polar
settings. You can set digital vibrance
to around 75% if you want to have more
vibrant colors or just straight up 100%
if that's your goal. But for me, I like
around 75%. That's my sweet spot
personally. Then press apply. Go to
change resolution and then just set this
to use Nvidia color settings and then
set the output dynamic range to full.
Then press apply. All right. Then you
want to go to adjust desktop size and
position. If you're not going to run
stretch resolution in any games or if
you're going to run stretch resolution
with custom resolution utility aka use
display scaling, you can just set this
to no scaling and press apply. Then just
press yes. You can just close out of
that. You can just go to disable dynamic
piece tape. If you are on a laptop, do
not do this at all. However, if you're
on a desktop and your GPU isn't
overheating at all, I would recommend
doing this step. This disables GPU idle,
which makes your GPU run at a constant P
0 state, aka lower latency and better
FPS in most of your games. So, you just
open up Regedit by searching up regedit.
Then, copy this address right here, like
so, and paste it in this address bar
like that, and press enter. Now, on this
bottom left right here, you might have
more than one key. So, for example, you
might have four zeros and then three
zeros and one and three zeros and two.
You just want to look through all these
and make sure that it says Nvidia
something in your graphics card. So, for
me, this is the correct one. So, now I'm
just going to copy this right here.
Right click right here. New D 32-bit
value. Paste. And I'm going to set this
to a value of one. Just like that. And
press okay. Then you can just close out
of that. It'll go back. And if you're on
Radeon, just follow the Radeon control
panel settings in here. That's all you
have to do. And go back. Go back again.
Go to Windows settings and double click
display settings. Now we're going to set
our refresh rate to the maximum. So for
me it's going to be 144 hertz. Press
keep changes. Then go to display and
then you're going to go to graphics.
Change default graphics. Make sure both
of these are turned on just like so.
Then go to system. Go to notifications.
Turn these off. And once you've done
that, you can now go to personalization.
If you need to activate your windows,
make sure to do that in order for you to
actually change your background and your
colors. I'm going to go to apps. We're
going to go to advanced app settings and
just turn off archived apps. right here.
And then we're going to go to gaming. Go
to game mode. Make sure that's enabled.
Xbox Game Bar, make sure you turn this
off. Then you're going to go to privacy
and security. Go to general. Make sure
everything here's off. Just go through
every single one of these and make sure
it's off just like how I'm doing.
However, keep camera and microphone
enabled. However, everything else in
here should be off. Just radios might be
turned on. And you want to make sure
that other devices is turned off just
like so. There we go. Pretty much going
to be optimized completely. And now you
just want to go to Windows Update and
pause updates if you can because you
don't really need to update your Windows
if you install the latest version from
the os.click website. Close out of that.
Go back. Go to disable unnecessary
services. If you want to disable
unnecessary services in Windows, just
run this bat file right here. And there
are some more optional services you
could disable. These are very optional.
You do not need to do these. However, if
you want to do them, it's up to you. So,
I'm going to double click service
disabler. It's just going to disable
everything that we don't really need for
gaming. Just like so. Just press any key
on that to close it. Then go back. I've
got to disable microode mitigations for
everyone that's on 14th gen or older.
Pretty much good to go to do this on
Intel. However, on AMD, especially the
newer ones, you might have to test out
with these and see if it performs better
with these enabled and on the new Intel.
But for the purposes of this video, I'm
just going to show you guys how to
disable them and enable them. So, just
double click MSU.exe, right? So, double
click this text file, copy these two
commands, and paste them into here and
press enter. That's going to pretty much
disable mitigations like so. If you want
to enable them and set them back to
default, just go to this folder, copy
these two, and paste them in here. So,
I'm just going to leave it disabled
because that performs better for my PC.
Then go back, go to disable memory
compression, and then just run this as
administrator. It's going to disable
memory compression on your PC. Then go
back, go to devices tweaks, go to device
manager, click view devices by
connection. And all you want to do is
you want to disable any empty USB
devices or empty USB controllers and
these empty PCI to PCI bridges or these
highdefinition audio controllers if you
don't use them or these RAID controllers
like so. So if you don't use a RAID
controller or a SATA controller, just
right click, click disable. Just make
sure that anything that's not being used
is disabled because that does reduce
latency. Then find your system drive.
It's going to be right here. Go to
policies. Check this. And make sure you
do this for all of your SSDs and drives.
Expand your USB controller. and every
single thing that you see. Right click
properties and make sure you uncheck
allow the computer to turn off this
device to save power for literally every
single thing that pops up in
here. All right. So once you've done
that, all you're going to do just run
the file system tweaks and then press
any key on that. Go back, go to network
settings and double click network
connections. Now double click whatever
you have Wi-Fi on, which is going to be
Ethernet or Wi-Fi. Then click
properties. Uncheck everything except
QoS packetuler and internet protocol
version 4. Then press okay. Go back to
properties. Go to internet protocol
version 4 and click properties. Go to
advance at the bottom right. Click ws.
Uncheck enable lmhost lookup. Disable
net bios holder
TCP/IP and press okay. Press okay and
press close. Press close. Now if you're
on Ethernet, you're going to do the same
thing but click configure at the end. Go
to power management. Uncheck everything
in here. Go to advanced and you're going
to disable enable PME, disable energy
efficient turbo. And you're going to
scroll down and disable selective
suspend and all of these wake on stuff.
Just disable them. That's pretty much
all you have to do. Click okay and close
out of that. Then go back, go to install
lers and games. And you pretty much
install whatever programs that you use
like Discord, Epic Games, and whatever
else. So once you got all these
downloaded and logged into, for example,
you want to go to Discord and go overlay
on the bottom right. Turn this off.
Click skip. Then go to advanced. Turn
off water acceleration. Press okay on
that. Then go to user settings again. Go
to voice and video and scroll down to
the bottom and disable debug blogging if
you have this option right here. Then
press okay. Then you can just minimize
Discord. Now for Nvidia app, you just
want to set this to game ready driver
for gamers. Press next. You want to just
turn off optimize games and creative
applications. Press next. And you want
to just leave Nvidia overlay turned on.
Obviously if you use Nvidia app for
clipping. However, if you don't really
use this for clipping or anything, you
can just leave it uninstalled. It's
completely useless unless you actually
use it for clipping. Press done. Then
going to go to settings. Make sure this
is turned off right here and this is
turned off. And literally everything
here. Go to notifications. Uncheck both
of these. Go to about and uncheck this
right here. Then you can just close out
a new media app. All right. So for Epic
Games, it's quite simple. Just go to the
profile icon, go to settings, uncheck
these two right here, and scroll down.
Uncheck the desktop notifications. Then
go back to settings. Go to library.
Let's just say your favorite game is
Fortnite. You just click on that. Click
install. Uncheck high resolution
textures. and then just check
pre-download stream assets. Press apply
and then press install. Once you've done
that, that's pretty much all going to be
for the launchers and games folder. You
can just go through Steam and Battleet
on your own time. Now, for disable immod
this is only for Intel CPUs. You don't
really have to do this, but it's
recommended. So, all you want to do if
you're on Windows 11, go to fix driver
cannot be loaded error. Double click
this and press yes and then press okay.
If you play games like Counterstrike 2,
the finals, these games will not work
unless you run the revert for this file.
So, if you play those two games, then
probably just don't do this tweak at
all. Double click RW everything and just
install that real quickly. It's going to
give you me this error, but once I
restart, it'll remove the error. Then
copy this, type shell, start up at the
top, press enter, paste this into there.
Then go back, go to move this to your C
drive, copy this, go to this PC, local
disc, and then paste that into here.
Then go back. And that's pretty much all
you have to do for that step. Now, clean
up. So, auto runs 64.exe. Run that. Then
click agree. Go to log on. This is
everything that launches whenever you
log into a PC. So, for example, I don't
want Discord and I don't want these down
here. I'm going leave everything else
alone, though. Then go to schedule task.
You can just pretty much delete anything
that's yellow because yellow means it
doesn't exist. Then disable these update
tasks right here. Pause Windows updates.
You can pretty much ignore this. It just
keeps pausing your Windows updates. So,
you don't have to always update. You can
pretty much disable this first three
right here. Then go to services. Same
thing here. Just disable anything that's
related to Edge update or Google update.
And then you're pretty much good to go.
However, I wouldn't touch more than
that. I would leave all these alone. Go
to drivers. You can just delete anything
that is yellow, just like so. Then close
out of that. Then check everything you
want to clean. Double click that. And
this is pretty much going to clean all
these files right here. You want to
check everything except direct X shader
gas right here. All right. And press
okay. And then you just double click
this file right here. It's going to
start running all those cleaning options
that you selected. Then go to temp one.
Just delete everything in here. Skip
those. Go back. Go to temp two. And just
delete everything in there. Then go back
and go to overclock controller. If
you're on a PS5 or PS4 controller or
even a Xbox fix controller, that can be
overclocked. And then just overclock
your controller. And then you can check
your polling rate with this program
right here that make sure that you're
running at the 10,000 Hz overclock. So
for PS5, set it to a,000. Do not set it
to anything above that because anything
above that doesn't actually work. And
you can just test that easily with this
tool right here. So that's all you have
to do for that step. And then you're
pretty much good to go. If you're not on
controller, just skip this completely.
And that's pretty much all you have to
do for this Windows optimization. That's
going to be pretty much it for
optimizing your BIOS settings and your
Windows settings completely. Now, let's
just say you wanted even more
performance after this. That's where you
would get something like overclocking,
like overclocking your RAM, overclocking
your CPU, and overclocking your graphics
card, we can help with that. So, if you
want overclocking done on your computer
for that extra performance, just join
our Discord server and click on the
overclocking services channel and you
just make a ticket there. However, let's
just say you went through all this and
you feel like you did something wrong.
you just don't want to go through this
full entire guide. If that's the case,
then you can just go to the first link
in the description and just go to
silly.net. We actually do everything for
you in the ultimate service along with
old clocking. So, if you want the best
of the best right off the bat for this
new year, then just click the first link
in the description. But other than that,
all I have to do now, just restart our
computer, make sure everything applies
properly, and then we're good to go. So,
as you guys can see, no errors, no
problems. So now all I have to do is
install Fortnite, install Call of Duty,
or install whatever game I did this
guide for, and just play your games and
comment down below the insane
performance differences that you're
going to see after following this guide
completely down to a te. But other than
that, that's going to be pretty much it
for this video. Hope you guys enjoyed.
Make sure to share this with all of your
friends that are constantly complaining
about input delay, low FPS, and FPS
drops. This is going to completely
change the game for them. And let's stop
complaining. piece